This design process that designers have
been taught, we sort of treat it as
gospel. That's basically dead. You as a
designer actually like do not have the
time to make these beautiful mocks
anymore.
>> A big part of the design role now is
helping engineers and teams execute, not
just telling them here's the design.
>> Few years ago, 60 to 70% of it was
mocking and prototyping. But now I feel
the mocking up part of it is 30 to 40%.
>> You're better off not blocking that,
letting them cook. It's not just
designers who are feeling like oh yeah
we have to keep up with engineers. I
think even engineers are like how do we
keep up with ourselves?
>> How do keep up with all our agents?
There are seven agents who are
constantly running.
>> The result of engineering changing a
bunch is that design is sort of forced
to change. We used to go off and make
this 2 year 5 year 10ear vision even.
Now it becomes a vision that's 3 to 6
months out and isn't necessarily
creating this beautiful deck. Sometimes
just creating a prototype that points
people in the right direction.
>> Boris on the podcast recently was saying
Claude Code is now helping him come up
with ideas. We'll get better at taste
and judgement and design. We might be
holding on to that a little bit too
much.
>> Where will human brains continue to be
valuable?
>> At the end of the day, someone has to
decide what is actually going to get
built and what actually matters. Someone
still needs to be accountable for the
decision.
>> What do you now look for when you're
hiring designers?
>> There's probably three archetypes of
folks that are really interesting to me
right now.
>> Today's guest is Jenny Wen. Jenny was
head of design for Claude, is now
leading design for Claude Co-work. Prior
to that, she was director of design at
Figma, where she led the design teams
behind Fig Jam and Slides. She was also
designer at Dropbox and Square and
Shopify. And what I love about this
conversation is that Jenny is living in
the future of where design as a
profession is heading. And she is here
to give us a glimpse into what that
looks like and how much things are going
to be changing for designers. It is
pretty wild and extremely interesting. A
huge thank you to no 111 and Emily Lin
Hasham for suggesting topics and
questions for this conversation. Don't
forget to check out lennisproass.com
for an incredible set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. Let's get into it after a
short word from our wonderful sponsors.
This episode is brought to you by
Mercury, radically different banking
loved by over 300,000 entrepreneurs,
including me. I switched to Mercury from
Chase over a year ago, and it is such a
profoundly better experience. It's like
an actual product person built a bank
versus a banking person building a
product. It is fast. It's elegant. It is
super easy to set wires, to track my
spending, to set up triggers to move
money around when accounts get low. We
moved all of our invoicing to Mercury.
And it is such a smoother experience
than anything else we've tried. It's
also really easy to grant people on your
team just the right amount of access to
help take work off your plate. It's free
to get started. No inperson visits, no
minimum balances. The product also
flexes to all sizes of company from
startups to large enterprises. Just
visit mercury.com to learn more and
apply online in minutes. Mercury is a
fintech company, not an FDIC insured
bank, banking services provided through
Choice Financial Group and Column NA
members FDIC. This episode is brought to
you by Orcus, the company behind
Open-source Conductor, the orchestration
platform powering modern enterprise
applications. Modern systems are built
on microservices, APIs, and event-driven
architectures. But legacy automation
tools can't keep up. Siloed low code
platforms, outdated process management,
and disconnected API tooling break down
under real world scale and constant
change. Orcus Conductor provides a
production grade orchestration layer for
coordinating microservices, APIs, data
pipelines, human tasks, and agentic
workflows with deterministic control
flow, retries, observability, and
governance. Built for enterprise scale,
Orcus supports visual and code first
development with built-in compliance and
reliability through a built-in MCP
gateway. AI agents handle reasoning and
decision-making while safely accessing
existing APIs and internal systems as
MCP tools. This enables agents to
operate across enterprise environments
and scale from demos to production,
orchestrating systems, agents, and
humans together to deliver smarter
outcomes faster. Learn more at
orcus.io/lenny.
That's o rke kes.io/lenny.
Jenny, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> Yeah, excited to be here.
>> I've been looking forward to this
conversation because I spent a lot of
time on this podcast talking about the
future of software engineering, how much
that role is changing, uh the role of
product management, how much that role
is changing. I haven't spent a lot of
time on how design is changing. Clearly
it is also changing in a really big way
and you have such a front row seat to
where things are heading. Uh I also know
you have a lot of very strong opinions
about where things are heading. So uh
there's a lot of stuff I want to talk
about. I want to just start with this
just this broad question. How is the
design process changing with the rise of
AI?
>> It's changing a lot. Um I I think it's
still also got a lot a long way to go in
terms of the way it's changing. Like I
think we've actually seen, you know,
engineering change a lot more in the in
the past little while than design
actually has. But I think the result of
engineering changing a bunch is that
design is sort of forced to change. Um,
and so I think some context around this
is I I did a talk at a conference in
Berlin a few months ago in September and
I called it like don't trust the design
process where I basically just said like
hey you know this design process that
designers have been taught where you go
and you go off and you do a bunch of
research and discovery and then you like
diverge you converge diverge converge
and it's like this process that we sort
of treated as gospel and and tried so
hard to preserve and we were like trust
the process.
that is that's basically dead. Uh I
think it was sort of dying before the
age of AI, but given now that you know
engineers can go off and spin off their
like seven clouds, I think as as
designers, we really have to let go of
that process. And I think that's the big
thing that's changing. But I think even
in the past three to four months since I
did that talk, that talk actually starts
to feel pretty it kind of feels outdated
to me, which is a little embarrassing.
But especially with the big shift of
like Opus 46 and a bunch of folks just
like really discovering and using cloud
code over the holiday break, um I think
we're seeing this like force to change
our pro process happen even more. the
the way I sort of see it now is like
there are basically two types of design
work and design work is kind of like
becoming really stratified in this new
world in this new world. Um so there's
like the first one which is really just
like supporting the implementation and
execution.
So this is the one where you know
engineers are using their seven clouds
to to create all these features and
anybody can like put an idea out there
and you can just like talk about an idea
and somebody usually actually an
engineer because they're still better at
implementing this stuff than we are.
They will just make a scrappy version of
it and you can try it out and you as a
designer actually like do not have the
time to make these beautiful mocks
anymore or to like kind of lead in this
way. And then I think there's like the
second kind of work that feels also
really important which is like creating
the sort of vision or direction for
things. Um this one feels like the
hardest to make time for and it's still
it's one that like we we still did
before but I think the shape of it is
very much changing because I think we
used to go off and say you know we're
going to do this design vision. We're
going to go off and make this like
2year, 5 year whatever 10 year vision
even and we're going to like point us
towards something. But the way that the
technology is changing now, like we
actually don't know, we don't know
what's going to happen in 2 years.
There's too much changing and it usually
becomes a vision that's like 3 to 6
months out and isn't necessarily
something that is like creating this
like beautiful deck that's like
beautifully story told. It's sometimes
just like creating a prototype that
points people in the right direction.
And I think this kind of work is like
still really important in this world
because in a world where people can spin
off their seven seven claws, make
whatever features they want in any
direct in any kind of like direction or
or implementation, you need to point
them towards something. And in order to
make sure that we're all making
something that makes sense together and
is also done in a way where it's like
efficient, right? like if we're all
working towards something that has one
greater cause, it's like much more
efficient to do that than than just
random things. And so that's like the
big shift that I'm seeing and I think I
have opinions about it now, but ask me
in like 3 months and it might actually
change even more. So what you're saying
here is it's not like uh you or the
design field is like we need to change.
It's engineering and the fact that you
can build so quickly just forces uh the
role of a designer to change because as
you said engineers can just ship ship
ship ship ship and what you're finding
here is like you're better off not
blocking that letting them cook as they
say and uh and then there's kind of this
mode of helping them along as they ship
bring it together make sure it all kind
of connects guide them a little bit.
>> Yeah, I think so. Yeah, I don't think
there is like one unifying voice that's
like designers, we need to change right
now, but there yeah, there is sort of
like the the follow- on effects of
engineering tooling really changing. I
think we'll probably see design tooling
change in this next year or so as well.
But a lot of it right now is trailing
bats. And I think it's also really
empowering for us too because as
designers we also now have access to a
lot of these coding tools and we can be
a part of the process in a way where
we're implementing stuff like it's like
I'm I'm doing a lot of last mile stuff
where I'm implementing all the polish
and like a and and sort of like working
with engineers really closely to get the
feature across the line um and also
prototype stuff in actual code as
opposed to like relying on engineers to
do that again. How true do you think
this this is at all companies at say AI
companies non AI companies you know
someone may be hearing this okay
anthropic claude like okay it's like
they're at the bleeding edge for one two
it's like developer a little bit but I
think people might be feeling like okay
I this is not going to happen at
Salesforce this is not going to happen
at I don't know service now wherever so
I guess does do you feel like this is
where all teams are heading is it mostly
AI bleeding edge companies how
widespread do you think the design
process shift is going to So the talk
that I did last year has weirdly been
like the most resonant talk that I've
done and I so I think it's something
that people are starting to feel across
the industry where they're like oh yeah
we can't do the old design process
anymore. You know we are using tools
like claude code and and bzero and
whatnot to to start to spin up
prototypes and PMs are starting to spin
up prototypes and stuff like that as
well. So I think there's something there
emerging. But the other interesting
observation with that talk too was there
was actually also a decent amount of
like backlash like people were people
clearly have invested their entire
careers in learning teaching using this
like really stable design process and
they were I think there was a lot of
like discrediting like oh yeah like we
can't do without discovery we can't do
without these pieces of process. So I
think there is still a piece of the
industry that is not quite there yet in
terms of this way of working if that
makes sense.
>> Yeah.
>> And a big part of this is like you could
argue like the question is what leads to
the best most successful products and
companies and you could argue it's
spending time doing discovery user
research mocks iterating beta testing or
it could be just engineer ship is stuff
that's okay not amazing good enough we
learn iterate build iterate. Is your
sense that that second path is not only
is that just like what everyone's doing,
but that actually leads to the better
product. At this point,
>> I think you sort of have to choose and
use your discretion as to like when to
actually ship something. But I think the
the ability to execute, try something
out and try it with like real data um
and and a real user like kind of mindset
in the product. I think that does lead
to a better product, especially as we're
all working with these like new
developing AI models that are
non-deterministic. You can't you just
can't you can't mock up all the states,
you know, and you can't theorize and you
can't even make uh like a clickable
prototype with it. sort of have to use
the actual models underneath and you
have to sort of see people try it out
with their use cases because with these
models like you discover you can design
them for different use cases but you
don't you have to discover use cases as
you see people using them. So yes
>> the other thing I always hear and
building on what you just said is just
you don't know what people will do with
AI. You don't know how good it'll be at
certain things the nondeterministic
piece of it. So you can create these
amazing mocks of what it might be and
then people use it in a completely
different way which is where co-work
came from and probably even cla code at
the beginning and so so what's it what's
it just like to be a designer at
Anthropic? Just like give us a day in
the life of working at Anthropic in at
the center of the storm.
>> A good amount of time at Anthropic is
actually just like catching up on what
people what's happening at the company.
I think this is the company where I I've
worked at a few other companies around
this size where I think there's just a
lot of like information and a lot of
things going on, but I feel really
compelled to keep up with it. You know,
like there's there's stuff that is like
model developments on the research side
and then at any given time there are
just so many different teams prototyping
and trying different ideas out and
there's a bunch of different like code
names and stuff like that. And a lot of
time I'm just like trying to navigate
and figure out what those what those
projects are because I think I'm just
trying to spot and see like hey what's
coming up ahead for me um because
there's stuff from both the research
team but also some of our like labs
teams that are that are closer to
research and trying out and prototyping
stuff. And then there's just like stuff
I want to try out, you know, like we
have a bunch of like we have a bunch of
prototypes and products internally that
we can use and I am just curious and I
want to try those things out. And then I
think there's also a lot of folks who
internally have a lot of insights and
opinions on where the industry is going
and some of those are just like really
interesting to read because a lot of
these are like philosophical debates or
directions of the company and stuff like
that and yeah I feel like I just want to
keep up with these things whereas I
think at a normal company I'm like it's
fine. This is stuff that's happening
outside of my reach. I don't I don't
really care as much where here I think
it's both the volume and the kinds of
things that are happening that I'm like
really interested in keeping up with. Um
and then aside from that sort of keep up
that's not a huge part of my job, but I
do think it's a really interesting part
of it.
>> Well, it connects to the point you made
earlier. A big part of the design role
now is helping engineers and teams
execute. Not just telling them here's
the mock, here's the design. It's
helping them stay on track, helping them
connect ideas, create a cohesive
experience as it's happening. So that
makes sense.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I think part of it
is just curiosity, you know, like it
feels like I have this front row seat to
so much happening in the industry. And
so a lot of it is like, yeah, our Slack
is a gold mine, you know, like I'm just
excited to to read through the things
that people are working on and they're
saying.
>> I never thought about how like there's
already so much AI news to keep track of
as a regular person and then actually
seeing what's actually happening inside
a lab is a whole new set of feeds to
watch.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's like I don't I think
that is the the best AI news is probably
internally if you're ever at one of
these companies in the slack.
>> Damn. Yeah.
>> It just problem keeps getting harder of
just keeping keeping track what's going
on. Okay. So, okay. So, that's part of
the job. What else?
>> There is still some of like the
traditional like let me think about
what's happening in the in the future
and let me like make some designs for
that. That's something that for example
this week I've allotted some time to
where I'm like okay cool. like we have
been in a lot of like execution mode for
co-work and now I want to set aside some
time to think about hey what do the next
like 3 months look like and and where
does that act where could that actually
go given where the market's at where the
models are at and what could that be
because I think it's still really helps
to visualize that and show that to the
team and point everyone in the same
direction um and then I also spend a
bunch of my day just jamming on stuff
with engineers like a lot of it is just
a conversation or like whiteboarding or
going through something that they built
and giving them feedback on it and being
a designer in that kind of way where
we're like consulting. Um, and then I
spend a part of my day in code, you
know, like polishing, implementing
stuff. Sometimes what happens is an
engineer and I have worked through
something and they've implemented a
first version of it and I I just go in
and polish it with them. Um, and that's
and that's a really fun part of my job
that I think didn't exist as much a few
months ago.
>> Are you still doing elements of the
traditional design process? Prototyping,
user research, uh, panels, I don't know,
just like going out and in, you know,
like the whole the whole thing you
described.
>> Yeah, we're still do I think we're still
doing all of that to some extent. like
we we have a user researcher on the team
who is putting together uh both like
traditional studies as well as surveys
and the whole team is reading that that
the those studies and that feedback. We
are still we are still prototyping
stuff. We are still I'm still mocking
stuff up. I think it's just I have a
wider set of tools now and I think the
proportion of time I spend doing each
thing just has changed.
>> Got it. Okay. So that's a really
interesting takeaway. It used to be that
was a huge
>> like I guess what would be the pie chart
of what your life was before where it's
like traditional
>> thinking, planning, prototyping,
mocking, research and then just like
feedback and execution and now today.
>> Yeah. I think as a designer a few years
ago
I would say like maybe 60 to 70% of it
was like mocking and prototyping stuff
up and then spending you know the last
20 or so some of the last 20 or so
like doing the sort of like jamming with
engineers consulting with them and the
last like 10% maybe doing you know
coordination meetings etc. Uh but now I
feel like the the mocking up part of it
is like 30 to 40% and then there's that
other 30 to 40% there that is now
jamming and pairing directly with
engineers and then there's like a slice
I don't know how much I have left but
but like there's a slice of it that is
now like implementation as well.
>> Yeah.
>> Like actually building and shipping.
>> Amazing. So kind of following that
thread, what's in your AI stack? What do
you as a designer? I know you're a
manager. I want to talk about how you
actually are I see also what's in your
AI stack. What tools are you using in
your role?
>> What is in my AI stack? Um well, we
we're working on topics. So, it's we're
going deep on the cloud stack. Yeah.
>> Um I am I'm using obviously like chat uh
cloud chat and then but increasingly
more and more cloud co-work. I've
basically shifted all of my chat use
cases over to co-work um because I've
been finding that yeah it sort of is
better at these longer running tasks and
most of the things I was asking claude
for are these these longer running tasks
and then there's cloud code of course I
use it mostly in the with with VS code
in the IDE because I'm usually tweaking
frontend stuff and it helps to just like
be able to see the code and then talk to
to claude as well. I've been trying to
actually use cloud code more uh remotely
like through both mobile and through
Slack as well. Um it's really fun for
somebody to say like oh yeah this this
one icons off or something and you just
at mention Claude and Claude does it and
then you pick up the PR and it's done.
That's been really really fun too. And
yeah I think that's just like I think
we're a fully Claude house here. So yes
that's basically my stack.
>> Are you still using Figma as a designer?
I am still using Figma. Yes. Yes.
>> Okay. I was waiting to hear. Okay. So,
Figma is still part of your your life.
Uh being a former Figmate, is that is
that what you were called?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Figates. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, I know there's this big
debate on Twitter just like is code the
future of design. Do we need to like
Figma anymore? Do we need to design?
What's your what's your sense? Figma is
still important. I mean, as a as a
former Figmate, I I'm maybe even biased
in that way, but I I I think there is
still like when I use Figma, I'm like,
yes, this is what I should be using and
it still fills a very good gap for me.
Um, I think a lot of that is actually
just like one is exploring a lot of
different options. I think that's a
really important part of the design
process to be able to just think about
like eight to 10 different ways to do
something. Um, I think the best design
happens when you're able to just like
throw a bunch of ideas at the wall and
curate and just like and and push
yourself to to come up with a bunch of
these different directions. Right now,
coding or or right now working with some
of these coding tools doesn't lend
itself super well to that because it's
super linear. You super invest in one
direction and you just iterate with
cloud on them for example. Um, so I
Figma has been really great at just like
exploring all these different options
and I think it's still going to exist
that way to some extent. And then I
think there's like really fine sort of
visual and interaction details that are
also really great to to to be able to
just try out in Figma. Again, it's a lot
of different directions, but it's micro
directions. It's being able to think
about like different typography or
styles. Having those in a canvas where
you can just explore that specifically
is still so so helpful and is not
something that I always want to like go
directly to code in.
>> It's interesting you still use an IDE
because in engineering it's clearly
shifting to uh command lines, agents,
ids are kind of moving moving to not be
cool anymore. So it's and it makes a lot
of sense. you just want to edit some CSS
things, some like
>> color stuff. And so I could see why not
just telling the agent, hey, just come
on, change this one hex value, just
changing it is so much easier.
>> Yeah, it's really annoying to be like,
can you change this to this class when
you can just go in and change it to a
different class?
>> So that's interesting. I wonder if IDs
now become the useful for designers and
PMs and engineers have moved on.
>> Yeah, maybe. Yeah.
>> Okay. So a lot of your time you spend
working with engineers, giving them
feedback, kind of nudging them in the
right direction. There's a sense I feel
of just like like your advice is like
let go. Don't feel like you need to be
this gatekeeper, but there's this piece
of okay, help them move in a direction
that is cohesive and is creating
products we're proud of. A lot of
designers, I think, are in this boat
right now just like, oh my god, I can't
keep up with all these engineers
shipping stuff all day. What's something
you learned about just either how to
help your engineers get better at design
so that it just ends up being better or
just kind of keeping on top of this and
not going crazy?
>> Whenever I do work with engineers on
projects and it's more on like a
consulting basis, I do just try to
explain, you know, why I'm thinking the
way that I'm thinking to help them like
extract principles as opposed to me just
being like, "No, I don't think this
should go here." It's like, "No, I think
we should have a button here because not
everybody realizes you can prompt this."
Um, and and here's an example where it
comes from research and whatnot. So, I
also just like try to point engineers to
our design system and stuff like that
and code because right now Claude is
like writing a lot of the code and it's
like not always it's not always like
picking up stuff in the design system
and whatnot. So, as much as I can sort
of equip them with stuff that they can
use in the future without me, that's
helpful. And then on your point of
trying not to go crazy, I think it's
hard, you know. I think it's really hard
right now. And I I see this a lot from
actually like both engineers and
designers where it's like now that we're
sort of capable of doing so much, we
want to do more. Uh and and so I think
it's not just designers who are feeling
like, oh yeah, we have to keep up with
engineers. I think even engineers are
like, how do we how do we keep up with
ourselves right now? So that's something
I'm hearing a lot.
>> That's so true. Oh man, how to keep up
with all our agents. Our seven agents
we're constantly running.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So then as a designer where in
this profession, craft and great
experience and quality and trust are
such a core part of the job to help
instill that in the products because
that in theory leads to really
successful products and companies. How
do you just think about maintaining
craft quality, trust as your products
are just shipping a thousand times a day
and you're not able to stay on top of
them and there's no designer involved?
>> It's not that there's no designer
involved. It's more just like there's
it's almost that there's too much for
one designer uh to handle. But um I
think with this I think about where the
features or products are that like where
they are sort of in the cycle of
adoption versus like kind of early
preview. So for example like we
sometimes will launch things and we will
say hey this is a research preview. It's
it's early. It's going to have a bunch
of these flaws and and we caveat that a
bunch. I think Quad Co-work is actually
a good example of this where we labeled
it a research preview and we put it out
there knowing that hey this is like
similar to our models. You know, this is
the worst it's ever going to be, but
we're going to put it out there because
we believe, you know, internally we've
tried it a bunch and there's something
really powerful here that some people
will benefit from. It might not yet be
the easiest to work with. It might not
be the highest quality. it might have
some issues with it, but we're going to
put it out there because we believe the
benefits outweigh the cons. I think that
is like okay to do, especially when
there is something really valuable with
the product already and it's worth
putting it out there. But I think the
promise you sort of have to make your
users is is like, hey, we're going to
put it out there, but we're going to
we're going to iterate. We're going to
take your feedback and we're going to
iterate and we're going to make it
better. And you have to sort of commit
that. You have to show that to the
world. You have to respond to people's
feedback and you have to show that you
are continuously shipping and improving
it because I think the way that you
really lose trust around quality and
releasing something early is if you
release it early and then nothing ever
happens. That that is what something
that degrades a brand but whenever you
put something out early like it's it's
possible to do that and like maintain
the brand of of your company. And I
think I think that's something that
we've been doing pretty well and and I
think if there's anything anyone's
listening that can if anyone's listening
can take away from it is like yeah we're
continuing to do that and and I think
that is actually really fun for me as a
designer because you put something out
there and you actually learn and you get
feedback about it immediately and you
know what to do next.
>> The way I've heard you describe this is
building trust through speed.
>> Yeah, for sure. It's yeah, it's building
trust through speed, but also just like
making people feel like they've been
heard and that we're fixing things based
on what they're trying to use it for and
their feedback is actually appreciated
and used.
>> Yeah, it's clear when when the labs
launch stuff and you all are very good
at this. Everyone on the team is
tweeting and just like responding to
tweets and comments and and then
shipping, hey, we fixed this yesterday
and this is happening. So there's a
clear sense of this is just today and we
know this is broken and we will fix it
and and then because cloud code can code
very quickly. Uh the fixes come very
fast.
Okay. So another big question that
people are asking that I ask a lot on
this podcast is around just like what
skills become valuable and like another
way I've been thinking about it Lex put
it this way recently is where will human
brains continue to be valuable as AI
gets smarter. So we've gone through this
progression of uh tab completing
segments of code to 100% of code is
written by AI now like it's crazy to now
AI is reviewing its own code. Boris on
the podcast recently was saying cloud
code is now helping him come up with
ideas and decide what to build which is
like okay wow look at that look at it go
the whole product workflows the product
development process slowly get eaten up
by AI. So the question is just like
where will human brains still be useful
at least until we have super
intelligence? Do you think like a do you
think AI is going to get very very good
at taste judgment design?
>> I think it will get better at taste and
judgment and design. Yeah. Like I I
think we
we might be holding on to that a little
bit too much and saying like oh yeah
like you know a a designer or somebody
will always know the the best thing to
ship or the best version of this and I
but I do think AI that like AI sense of
taste will get better at the end of the
day. Someone has to decide like what is
actually going to get built and and what
actually matters. And and when I think
about people saying like, oh, you know,
like AI is just going to build this
software for us, a lot of the hard parts
of building software are actually like
not building it. You know, if you think
about the hardest times that you've had
at work, honey, is probably things like,
oh, you and some other person like
disagreeing about like what should go
into this feature or what shouldn't go
into this feature. And those things
still feel like yes, AI can weigh in,
but it can't necessarily solve this
dispute between you and somebody else.
And so there is something about like
deciding what actually goes into the
things we build which I guess is taste
in some way but maybe not taste in like
the way we think about like aesthetic
taste or or whatnot. There's some sort
of like it's like judgment around what
to do next.
>> Just watching how quickly AI had took
over coding which I think a year ago
definitely two years ago most people are
like I don't think so. I don't think AI
will get this good and that the best
engineers in the world trust it so much
they're not even looking at the code
anymore. Like that's where we kind it
just made me re-evaluate all these
assumptions I've had about okay AI will
never be as good as really good PMs
designers at judging what is great and
deciding what to build. But I'm just
like starting to think I think it will
get there. Like even in the example you
shared like it could give these two
people trying to make a decision. Here's
all of the data you need to make a
decision and here's why this is the
right answer and just press yes. Press
one and I'll go ahead and build it.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I think we're just Yeah. To your
point, I think we undervalue just how
good it'll get at this stuff.
>> Okay. So, your sense is it'll get
better, but your sense is we'll still
need awesome designers to be involved,
awesome PMS to help make these
decisions, engineers, of course.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I think someone will
still have to decide like oh we want to
build this kind of product or like given
what the AI is presenting us like
someone still needs to be accountable
for the decision you know the same way
that like even though cloud can write
all this code for you today it is still
an engineer who's accountable for like
does that code actually work does this
actually make sense in the product so I
think there's that like
decision-making/judgment
layer which feels like maybe one day we
won't have to do that but it's uh it
still falls on us. Yeah,
>> it doesn't make sense. It makes me think
about the radiology example where
there's always the sense that AI is
going to take over that field of
radiology and tell you what is going on.
>> But like the human is mostly useful for
signing off on the decision because
someone needs to be liable if they're
wrong.
>> Um which isn't the best job in the
world.
>> But uh but that's a different game is
health versus code.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Another ongoing question in AIing
design is just like it feels like chat
bots and terminals are just like like I
don't think anyone expected this to be
the lasting uh user interface to AI like
chat bots. Okay. No no no this is just
like a temporary stop along the journey
but now it's like got even further and
just terminals.
Um do you have thoughts on just I don't
know where like do you think there will
be a next step of how we interface with
AI or do you think chat bots and
terminals are are mostly where we end
up? There will likely be a combination
of both like both UIs and interfaces
that you are interacting with, clicking
with and and and that feel like more
tactile. We are already seeing this and
playing with this within Claude, like
the chat bot. Um, so we recently
released a bunch of these widgets that
let Claude sort of elicit and ask you
questions and also show you, you know,
things like the weather and stocks and
whatnot in interactive ways. And I think
those have had a really good reception
because people still like to see UIs and
touch them and and click them and they
are much more efficient than you know
typing something to to Claude. But at
the same time when we really leaned into
this like chatbot paradigm like I think
that just gave us this whole world of
flexibility that we didn't get with
these sort of like baked in UIs. Um, so
my read here is like I don't think Tad
is ever going away because this opened
up this like new way of like infinite
ways to to work with the model and to
sort of like talk to the computer that
we just didn't have before. But I think
that it will still be most direct for
very specific things to exist in this
UI. And I think that what will probably
happen here is that a lot of those UIs
will be generated more and more often by
the models as opposed to something that
we're like hand coding each instance.
But I think we yeah we're in this space
where I don't I don't think chat and and
and and maybe even like talking to the
terminal is is going to go away. It's
interesting that like with openclaw
claude mbot all the names the innovation
one of the big innovations is like
another way to chat with it through
WhatsApp and telegram and SMS
>> just like another form of chatbot but
that just like that was a big unlock oh
I could just chat with it through
WhatsApp.
>> Yeah. And it's like you like chatting
and talking to someone is still like you
know we as humans are doing it. And so
and it's a way for us to interact in a
really rich way and now we just have
this other medium to like interact with
a computer basically.
>> Yeah. Um so Kevin Wheel uh who works at
another AI lab I won't mention. He had
this great point on the podcast that
talking is such a beautiful way to
handle every level of intelligence. We
can talk to people that are very very
smart and not so smart and it's talking
and it scales. so well across the
spectrum. We can talk to people at 200
IQ 300 like it's talking still works. So
that's why it's been this beautiful way
to deal with the growing intelligence of
models and it continues to work.
>> Yeah, that totally makes sense. Yeah.
>> This episode is brought to you by Omni.
Many product teams today are in the
process of debating how to ship AI
analytics. The hard part is obvious.
Having an LLM guest at SQL in production
is a huge mess and just a bad idea. Omni
takes a different approach. They have a
semantic layer built in so that when you
embed their analytics, the AI actually
knows your business definitions, not
just your raw tables. You can test
queries, validate the reasoning, and
lock down permissions before anything
hits production. If you want AI
analytics in your product without
building the whole stack from scratch,
check out omni.co/lenny
for a free 3we trial. Companies like
Perplexity, DBT, and Buzzfeed use Omni
to ship analytics their customers can
trust. That's omni.co/lenny.
>> Okay. I want to come back to this whole
idea of management and IC. So, so you've
spent you've kind of put yourself back
into the IC role in a lot of ways. Talk
about that and if you think that's just
like a thing design managers need to be
doing.
>> Yeah, I have takes on this. Um, yeah.
So, this past year at Anthropic, I
joined as an IC at first. Um, and then I
managed a team for a few months in in
like an orch structure that sort of
needed it. And now I'm actually back to
doing full-time IC work. And I joined
Endopic as an IC cuz I was just really
excited about the kind of work that
there was to be done as an IC here, but
also because I was feeling like, you
know, I I I sort of want to be close to
the work and I I think this feels like a
really important time to do it before I
like ascend the corporate ranks, you
know, and and I was having these like
questions and doubts about like is is
middle management like is that safe in
the future? like are is is is the way
that we're working actually is this
going to be a job that persists into the
future or
or should I you know try something else
and like get my hands dirty kind of
thing. Um and and to be totally fair
like I actually love both sides of the
coin like I loved I love managing
people. I love like setting up teams um
and being at that level but I also just
really loved IC work. Like I was sort of
like a reluctant manager when I did it
and I was like okay I'll do it. Um, so I
love both sides of these co the coin
like pretty equally. But I think
actually what being an ICO across this
past year has taught me is that it
actually just like gave me a lot of
skills that I I don't think I would have
gained if I was just managing throughout
this year. Um, like the design, like I
mentioned, the design process has
changed so so much in this past year and
I feel like I've just picked up so many
hard skills that I wouldn't have
necessarily had the time to do if I was
just managing a team. Um, so that's
actually the best thing it's afforded
me. And I think at any point if I'm like
managing a team again, I think it will
give me the empathy and understanding of
how the design process has changed. And
I think that's actually a really
important thing right now because yeah,
the teams are working so differently. I
think it's actually pretty hard to
empathize if you are not working in that
way or you're like not always like
testing all the tools and trying stuff.
But yeah, like it's it's an interesting
time to be a designer and if I had not
worked in this environment, I don't know
if I would have totally understood it or
like knew what to do or how to guide my
teams. So that that's sort of what this
year really gave me.
>> And so you were previously a director of
design at Figma, right? How big was your
team? Like how large was your or just to
give people reference?
>> At the max I probably had, I think 12,
15 designers or so and and I had a few
managers as well. So
>> cool. And then
>> yeah okay so you had this sense that
middle management might not last what's
your current feeling do you think manage
design management is a thing that
persists long term or do you think
everyone turns into IC
>> I think as long as there is a team of
people it it helps to have somebody who
is managing a team like I think there is
there's like real value in managers it
depends kind of like what the shape of
the manager is and what they actually do
but the way I think about like what a
helpful manager is these days is
somebody who is not just like I think
pure people management like oh like just
somebody to sort of set you up help you
in your career have one-on- ones make
sure you're feeling like good at work I
think that that is kind of not a thing
as much anymore but I think somebody who
can really function as like giving the
team direction as well as doing some of
the people management stuff like that
tied together I think is the future of
what managing looks like at least for
now um like somebody who can really
engage with the team in terms of like
the work and giving direction there. Um,
as well as like creating the environment
for them to do their best work.
>> And do you see yourself going back into
management long term?
>> I probably will. I probably will. Like I
I think I I really just love, you know,
helping a team like build the best
product possible. And my my motto there
is like whatever it takes. You know, if
it's somebody that if if if the team
needs somebody to give the team
direction and like set up the team and
whatnot, that could be me. If the team
just like needs somebody to execute on
it, that could be me as well. So the
advice I'm hearing for people in design
that are especially managers is you
almost need to move back into IC in
order to truly understand what is
happening and how much it's changing so
that you can be a better manager. I
think so. And I think traditionally um
at least what I've seen a lot of like
the engineering disciplines like when
they hire EM or even sometimes like
directors there they actually make the
EM like take a rotation for a few months
and and pick up a few tasks and really
understand how the technology works
before they become a full-time manager.
And I think design probably needs to do
something similar too where I think in
the past design has been much more like
people management oriented. What did you
find yourself most rusty in when you
went back to IC designer?
>> Actually like doing crits, you know, um
and just getting criticized. Yeah.
Getting criticized. You're like, "Oh,
yeah." Like it is hard to get uh it is
hard to get critical feedback and to
hear it and to hear on such a regular
basis because that's the thing you have
to do as a designer is like it's a
pretty vulnerable exercise to share work
and present it with your team and then
also just get a lot of critical feedback
and and take that all the time.
>> Yeah.
>> So currently you're you're leading
design uh slic designing on co-work is
that right?
>> Yeah.
>> Awesome. So Boris, he was on the pod
recently talked about how there's like a
lot of debate about what co-work should
be and there's all these big ideas and
he's like in the end let's just make it
like a terminal basically in the product
and just kind of a fancy terminal. Is
there anything you could share about
just the process of landing on where you
landed for that experience of co-work? I
have it here on my monitor by the way
looking at it.
>> With co-work specifically we have had a
bunch of different prototypes internally
of what that could look like. Um, and
it's one of those things where we tried
a lot of things and then we I think we
weren't really sure like when it was
actually going to be ready to ship and
then it was sort of like everything all
at once. Like we were like, "Okay, we're
going to we're going to ship it soon."
>> It was It was 10 days. 10 days of
building.
>> Yeah, it was it was it was definitely
longer than that. Like overall it was
like 10 days to get it from what we had
internally to something that we were
ready to ship externally. So we'd been
building it for a while, but we weren't
really sure about like the actual form
it was going to take. Um, and so the way
it got there is actually there was a lot
of different other explorations that we
had internally on top of different agent
harnesses and whatnot. And we just had
prototyped little parts of the different
interactions that ended up in co-work.
So things like um when Claude gives you
a to-do list, we tried a bunch of
different form factors for that. We
tried a bunch of different form factors
for the way it uh presents you different
like multiple choice questions. We tried
a bunch of different um ways to teach
people what the use cases are and
whatnot. And I don't know if we like
landed on the best form factor ever, but
uh essentially it was like stuff that
was sort of already working internally
that people liked that we just thought
we were going to get some more signal on
by by releasing it. So I think forcing
ourselves to release it within that 10
days that we did, it was just sort of
like whatever we had, let's put it out
there and then let's go out there and
iterate from there, which is what we're
doing. and it blew up the internet when
you launched it, so worked out.
>> Yeah.
>> Is there a feature of Co-work today that
you're either most proud of or just like
can't wait to fix and and improve?
>> Honestly, I think we're I I'm just most
proud of us actually just like shipping
it to be honest. Um and putting it out
there. And uh
yeah, I don't know if there's like one
specific thing yet cuz like I think when
when you work on something and you work
on it so long, especially as a designer,
you're like I don't know if I like, you
know, I all I can do is see flaws in it.
But I think there's a lot of stuff that
I'm excited about. Like we have been uh
iterating especially on the homepage and
to make that something where it feels
more like hey these are like tasks you
can give Claude and and that tasks that
Claude are working on. Um and so that
actually should be rolling out. It might
already be rolled out by the time this
this
>> All right. So I see like this little
randomizer thing where you click it and
gives you all these different ideas.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then so when you
actually start to work with Claude on
stuff, it feels more like a to-do list.
Like it feels more like these are things
Claude's working on. Um these are things
that Claude needs your attention on. And
I think there's just a there's an
opportunity here to make it feel much
more like this like shared to-do list
between you and Claude. So excited to
iterate on that. And then I'm also
excited to think more about uh yeah like
what is the actual true form factor of
this? like is it stuck in the screen
always or how does this sort of like
reach out to the different surfaces that
it's working with?
>> I love that you shared that it wasn't
just 10 days to do this thing. There's
like these numbers that people throw out
there. We build it in 10 days. And your
point is like there was time spent
thinking about what direction it should
go and prototyping, mocking, trying
stuff. And then it's like, okay, now we
know what we want it to be. Let's build
it and ship it.
>> Yeah. I think for some reason that
became like the viral thing that got
taken away from all of the the sort of
co-work announcements is that it only
took 10 days. But I think there there
have just been so many different
explorations
uh and people that have worked on
different pieces of co-work
yeah it was it was not just 10 days and
there was a lot of different people
involved. It's it's one of those things
where it's like the the idea kept coming
back and it's like never the right
moment or there's like different
variations of it and then all of a
sudden it's the right moment and it
feels like it was so obvious all along
but there was a long long journey to get
there.
>> And by the way for people that don't
know much about co work is like the way
I think about it it's like clawed with
hands where you could do stuff on your
computer.
>> Is that is what's how would you describe
it just like in a sentence or two?
>> That's a good description. I actually
haven't heard that but I like that. I
might use it more often as clawed with
hands. I also think about it as like
it's like Claude, but Claude is really
good at taking all your garbage and then
turning it into something nice. Like I
think one of my favorite
like any sort of use case that I I
really like out of co-work is just like
giving it a folder of my stuff and it
doesn't really matter what's in that
folder but I'm able to extract something
good out of it.
>> I've done that many times. Okay, coming
back to managing and being a manager and
the role of a designer. I want talk
about hiring for a little bit. So,
seeing how much is changing in the role
of a designer, what do you look for
that's maybe new? Like what do you now
look for when you're hiring designers
that you think is really important for
them to be successful in this new world?
Well, I do think working specifically in
the envir kind of environment that I do
there there's just like a sense of like
resilience and like roll with it kind of
thing. Um that I think is really
important because yeah so much is
changing around us and you have to be
really willing to adapt to try out new
methods to try out new tools and learn
stuff as opposed to just like be stuck
in the old processes and the old ways.
Um, but then I think about also there's
probably three archetypes of folks that
are really interesting to me right now.
Um, and I think these folks were already
interesting to me before, but I feel
like is in this era feels especially
important. Um, so the first one I would
call is like strong generalists. Um, so
not just like regular generalists where
they're like kind of good at a lot of
things, but like people that are like
almost like block shaped, you know, in
that T-shaped framework where it's like
they're really good at like a few core
skills, like 80th percentile good. I
think this is like pretty rare and hard
to hire for to be honest. But I like
this because the design role we've
already seen is kind of like is
stretching and spanning, right? Like
we're all becoming more PM shape. we're
be all becoming engineering shaped. Um,
and so if you already have strong skills
in a few different buckets, it's really
easy for you to sort of like flex around
and expand your expand your role. So
that's really exciting to me. It's just
somebody who is really good at a bunch
of things. Again, a huge ask. Um, and
then the other person that's really
exciting to me is in that T-shaped
framework, like a a deep specialist,
like someone who's is T-shaped, but like
the the the tip of the tea probably is
like goes down farther than most other
people. So, folks that are maybe like
the top, you know, like 10% in the
industry and whatnot. again, super hard
to find. And I feel very lucky that
like, you know, working at at some of
these places, like folks like these, you
you can sort of afford to hire them and
and and actually bring them on board.
Um, and then my last one is probably the
one that I think we're all overlooking,
which is what I call the craft newrad.
Um, it's just somebody who is like early
career and uh feels kind of like wise
and experienced beyond their years, but
is also just like very humble and and
and very eager to learn. I think this
person is really interesting right now
because
I think most companies are just hiring
like senior talent, like folks that have
done things before, are super
experienced, but given how much the
roles are changing and what we're
expected to do is changing, I think
having somebody who almost has like a
blank slate and is just like a really
quick learner and is really eager to
learn um new tactics and stuff like that
and doesn't have like all these baked in
processes and rituals in their mind,
that's super valuable. Um, so I think
those are the folks that I think a lot
of us are just like overlooking, but I'm
like really excited about.
>> This is awesome. Uh, on the deep tea
shape, what's an example of someone in
design that has a like what's what's a
skill that they're really good at?
>> Sometimes there's designers who are just
like really technical in a way where
they could be like 50% of soft they're
they're basically a software engineer.
That's really interesting especially
because right now like a lot of it is at
least for us it's like you know you're
working with directly with the model so
it can it helps when you have just like
deep engineering expertise. Um, but
another like deep kind of like
specialist T is just, you know, maybe
they're just really good at like visual
design or or just like designing icons
or something where things like that
given that everybody can anybody can
make anything, you know, having that
deep specialist slant feels like, oh
yeah, they can really help differentiate
the things that we're building.
>> Awesome. Okay. And then this block
shape, we had Mark Andrees on the
podcast. We kind of called it the F
Fshape or E shape where there's like
multiple T thing. Sideways F, sideways
E, I guess. Is that what you're
describing where there's like many
things you're really really good at?
>> Yeah. Yeah. And like basically like I
don't know if you almost had their skill
set, it would it would look like a
block, you know, like
>> there's so many skills that like the tea
is spread out. Okay.
>> Okay. And the correct new grad. So this
is just like someone that is uh eager
like uh open-minded, gritty, very smart,
I imagine, is a big part of it.
>> Yeah.
>> Awesome.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> If someone's like a new design, like a
young designer trying to break in,
trying to be successful, what would your
advice be to them to help them have a
shot at at ends up joining Anthropic,
for example?
>> I would just say just like build a bunch
of stuff like try a bunch of stuff out,
build build actual things. I I think
that is that can feel I don't really
know what the state of like design
education or education is these days but
at least from like back when I was in
school like everything was very like
theoretical and like here we're going to
teach you some approaches and whatnot
but like the best the best kind of like
crack new grad folks I know are just
like people who just like use the
technology build actual things don't
feel like limited by you know how little
experience they might have. I think that
sometimes they're actually unburdened by
that cuz like we have expectations of
ourselves after being in industry for so
long, but they actually don't and they
sort of feel like anything is possible.
And so just like building a bunch of
stuff and and sharing it with people and
finding a community of folks that uh
that also do that. Um yeah, I think my
my one call here too is like I went to a
school that started something called
Socratica like much a few years after
actually a while after I graduated and
basically their whole thing is like
building stuff and showcasing it almost
like a science project and I think
there's just been a really cool movement
there of folks who just like build
things and do things. Like for example,
somebody built this like claude robot
project. This was like a few years ago
too where they were uh just assembling
robots that were running on Claude and
then somebody else did something where
she just wanted to put googly eyes on a
bus in Boston or something and there's
just like a sense of of both like agency
in terms of like yeah we can just do
stuff but then also this community where
people were just trying and building
things and sharing things with each
other. So whatever that looks like given
that, you know, the school that
someone's from or graduating from, yeah,
doing that kind of stuff is is is the
stuff that will make people stand out.
>> For current designers that are make
career awesomely senior, do you think
you need to get technical and learn to
code, at least build, or do you think
you could be really successful and just
not lean into that and get better at
other stuff? I think it definitely helps
to maybe not like learn how to code so
much that that uh you know you're
building something from scratch but I it
does feel like more and more of the
designer vocabulary right now is
implementing some stuff. I wonder though
as you know the the models both the
models and the products get better if
like
we I mean we probably will continue to
like move up the abstraction layer and
layers and you won't have to actually
know how you know each single line of
code will work but I think what I would
say is like start to bring that into
your like toolkit the coding tools
whether or not it's like you're actually
becoming technical I think any designer
should just be really aware and like
know how to use the tools that are at
and as opposed to maybe like learning
and like going off and you know learning
react or or etc etc.
>> How good of a designer is Claude would
you say or Claude code what however you
want to like would you hire Claude as a
designer or is like not there yet?
>> I don't think Claude is there yet. I
don't think Claude is there yet in terms
of a designer you would hire. I think it
is it is not yet the strong generalist
or the deep specialist or the crack new.
I think it's it's pretty good at a first
pass and at presenting a bunch of
different ideas to you, but uh nothing
there quite feels like yeah special and
hirable yet,
>> which is good news for designers for now
that it sucks at this for now. And I'm
so curious to see how good it could get
at this. That's like such a big open
question is
>> can it pump out amazing novel unique
creative experiences or is this just
never going to be that good as a as a
human designer? I mean, it's gotten a
lot better in the last year or so even.
So, yeah.
>> There's a couple management uh I don't
know, rituals or takes you have that
I've heard from folks that you work with
that I want to touch on. One is that you
have this hot take that low leverage
time for a manager is is just not a
thing that there's a lot of benefit you
can get out of things that people
consider low leverage. Can you talk
about that?
>> Yeah. Um yeah, I remember like first
becoming a manager and I think one of
the pieces like of advice that I either
got from a course or a book or something
is like yeah now that you're a manager
you have to uh like really prioritize
your time and categorize your work and
there was like this 2 by two of like I I
don't remember what it was in it but you
essentially say like oh these are the
things that only I can do these are the
things anybody else can do and
everything else you know like it's low
leverage and you shouldn't do that
anymore and a lot of the lowle leverage
things were just like, you know, like
things that are really nitpicky in the
weeds or just like literally yes,
probably somebody else could do those
tasks. But when I think about like
leaders and managers that I have respect
the most, um I actually think some of
the their best traits is that they
choose like lowlever tasks that they
take on themselves and that actually
ends up being actually a very high lever
thing because it's them who's doing it.
Um, so one example is, uh, whenever you
have like senior leaders who just like
test the out of the product and
they're just like so in tune with it.
Um, and they dog food it, they repro the
bugs, they spend a bunch of time with
like engineers like sharing the logs and
like nitpicking and stuff like that. Um,
and I think that ends up being like
super actually high leverage even though
it's a lot of time of like nitty-gritty
time because it creates this like
familiarity with the product which I
think is really good. Uh it also creates
this vibe where it's like, oh yeah, the
this senior leader really cares deeply
and they actually know the ins and out
of the product and they're rolling up
their sleeves and they're giving this
feedback and working with the team on
it. Um and I think similarly too what
I've seen is like when a senior leader
is able to like fix a bug now, you know,
even like I think I've actually seen
like Mike Kger before like put put in
PRs himself. Um, and it's it's it's
really nice cuz it's like, okay, cool.
Like, we're all on this team together
and nothing is like below this person.
Um, and I think simil another thing that
I love that's a little bit more cultural
is when somebody like goes out of the
way to like make somebody's like
anniversary card or something. um and
like vibe code them super something
super nice or make them something a
super nice card because I think it just
shows that yeah it's like an EA or
somebody can put together the card but
this later is just somebody who cares so
much about their team that they put in
the effort. So that's something I try to
embody is like choosing the like the the
seemingly lowlever tasks that are like
worth my time.
>> Yeah, that is so interesting. Like what
you're saying there is in a sense like
the low leverage stuff is the one is the
stuff that often has the most impact
because your reports wouldn't expect you
to spend time on this thing and there's
a like the low leverage ends up being
high leverage.
>> Yeah. And I think it's what makes like
your style of leadership stand out or
feel special to a certain person.
>> Amazing. Another uh I don't know ritual
and kind of way of running teams that I
heard about you is uh you encourage uh
team members roasting each other which
on the surface doesn't sound like a
wonderful environment but uh on the
other hand I hear constantly that the
teams that you've built are just the
happiest the highest performing teams.
Talk about I guess this idea of roasting
and encouraging that and just what
you've learned about building awesome
teams. Yeah, I think it's not that I'm
like, "Yo, you should roast each other,"
you know, like I'm not like forcing it
in that way or anything. Um, but when I
think about the sort of psychological
safety and teams and like people that
just get along with each other, like
when you think about your friends, you
know, you're you're always sort of
willing to like push the boundaries a
little bit and like roast them. Like
you're roasting your friends a lot, but
you actually might not be roasting your
co-workers a lot because you it's it's
all just about like comfort and and
safety, right? So, it's not that I'm
like, "Oh, I want my teams to roast each
other." But I think it can be a really
good sign when uh the people on your
team kind of feel comfortable just like
kind of poking fun at each other a
little bit. Um, and I think that also
can be a good sign when folks also feel
the same way about like you as a leader
where it's like there's just an element
of like they don't they don't fear you
as much, but they and they feel like
there's a sense of safety where if they
say something, they're not going to get
fired. Um, so an example of this is like
with my last team, I feel like they
would make fun of things that I would
say at crits sometimes, like certain
phrases I would say.
>> What's an example of that?
>> I don't like I Oh, I would always be
like, "Okay, like what are next steps?"
And like, "How do we follow up on this?"
And then they'd be like, "Okay, like
what are next steps?" Um, and they would
sort of channel me in that way. Yeah. I
just think it shows a level of like,
"Okay, these people are like not
necessarily afraid of me. they know that
they trust me. They can they can trust
me. Um, and it's it's and then they sort
of like know enough about each other and
me like personally in our personal lives
to be able to like know sort of where
those boundaries are. Um, but at the
same time, I think the the the thing
that you sort of air into in that
territory is like are you as your as a
manager, are you friends with your
reports, which is I think the thing
people tell you like not to do. And so
the way I think about balancing this out
is like this creates like the you have
to create this sort of like uh baseline
of psychological safety and people feel
comfortable both with each other and
with you, but you also have to make sure
that you they know that you have really
high standards. Um, and I think these
two things can feel like they're at
tension, but I think they're actually
they work really well together because
it's like once you have that
psychological safety, you have people
trusting each other and you applying the
high standards actually I think becomes
potentially easier because you can do it
without fear. I think um and I sort of
think about this from the approach of
like kind of like being a tough parent a
little bit, you know? It's like, oh
yeah, like they my team, I work with
them in a way where they know I'm always
going to be there. Um, and I'm not just
going to fire them on a whim or
something, but at the same time, they
also know that I want the best for them,
you know, and that I have high standards
and that, you know, I I'm working with
them to to make the best work possible.
And so yeah, that's the balance I need
to strike is like can you create this
environment of one where your team feels
comfortable roasting you but at the same
time like they know they have to be
doing great work and they and they will
do great work with you.
>> That is awesome advice. It's interesting
how often this this uh just like
management style comes back or
management uh good management it comes
back reminds me of what was it candid
radical cander just this combination of
caring deeply and challenging directly.
Yeah.
>> And that's kind of what I hear here is
just make sure people know that you care
deeply about them, but also be very
direct and have high standards.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So interesting. Okay. Maybe a final
question. I'm always looking for
interesting frameworks and methods and
processes that people have found useful
in their work and I hear you're a big
fan of something called the legibility
framework.
>> Talk about this. Talk about how you use
it, why it's so valuable. Yeah, this
framework I think I saw it on Twitter
maybe last year or something and it was
Evan Tana who is a partner at SPC uh
he's a BC so it it basically is this
like 2 by 2 I don't think it like got so
much attention but I once I started
seeing it I like actually couldn't stop
thinking about it so um on the 2 by 2
PBS has like founders like founders can
be either illeible or legible and then
ideas can either be illegible or
legible. Um, and basically he was saying
that like, okay, if if both the founder
and idea is like super legible, the idea
is probably not that novel and
somebody's already like they're already
going to implement it or or or do it and
you're actually not finding something
new. Um, but then where it gets really
interesting is where like the idea
itself is illegible. And by illegible he
means like oh it's sort of like really
you know on the frontier people might
not get it yet or like the way it's
being told it just doesn't it's not like
being told in the in the in the way that
makes the most sense to people and I
think this is obviously a good way for a
VC to operate because you're trying to
look for the opportunities that people
don't see and put them out there in the
world but I also think that like part of
the role of the designer at least um at
least at at a at a frontier lab at
anthrop topic is kind of spotting the
ideas that are illeible and trying to
understand what's there and how to take
that and like transform it whether it's
through storytelling or whether it's
through like the actual UX and the form
factor and and and and put it out there.
Um and I think there's like like when I
mentioned you know going through Slack
and like looking at all the stuff that
people are making like that's kind of
what I'm doing. I'm trying to see like,
oh yeah, what are the ideas that are
really that like there's like some
energy there around but like might not
make sense yet that that are worth me
like thinking about more in my work.
There's there's one good example
actually that like ties to co-work uh
where there was this internal prototype
that we've called like cloud studio that
I think somebody built
like partway through last year. Um, and
it essentially was just this like really
kind of like dense powerful interface
that was built on top of some agentic
harness. I I it might have been Claude
code at that point in time too. And it
had all these like displays where
showing you like all this knowledge and
all these skills and and things Claude
was doing and like previewing it
outputs. Um, and I think to a designer I
looked at it and I was like this is like
I don't know what's going on. I don't
really get it. Um, but then I sort of
saw the folks in research, the folks
building it and and just folks
internally, there's just a lot of energy
around it and I was like, cool. Like I
think there's like something here, but I
just don't understand it yet. And I
think that really was an example of an
anil illeible idea. And ultimately what
came from it was like the skills
framework um and and and uh like the
sort of like markdown files that sort of
that instruct Claude on how to do
something. So that came out of that
specific prototype that was not
something I was directly involved in and
that was more of like you know the folks
working on this prototype extracted that
out of it. But when it did come to
working on Claude co-work and I was
thinking about like oh yeah what is the
form factor for those things seeing that
prototype and seeing the kinds of
information that people found really
helpful like seeing Claude's um plan and
to-dos um seeing Claude's like context
and the files that it was it was going
through like those kinds of things are
things that I ended up pulling out of
that prototype into cloud co-work so
yeah I think about like how can
designers almost be more like VCs in
this way internally only when we're
looking at prototypes.
>> This is super interesting. I did a
research project recently where uh with
this guy Terrence Rohan VC actually we
looked at what are patterns across
people that have joined companies very
early that ended up being massive
successes like Palanteer and Stripe and
um linear and notion all these companies
like people that have joined many of
these companies early what were they
looking for and one of the factors was
the idea so is like so crazy that
everyone's laughing at this this is this
is impossible you're never going to do
This this is the craziest thing. Why
would you even think like pal like all
the like openi actually was one of them
just like some research lab doing some
stuff. So so it's interesting that and
it's not like every time this will work
and it's not like every crazy idea that
sounds makes no sense will be good but I
think what you're saying is pay
attention to stuff that's like
interesting to you and isn't totally
clear. Maybe you can be the person that
helps pull it together.
>> Yeah. Yeah. that but also like if there
is some energy around it but I don't
quite always understand what the energy
is to like dive deeper and try to
understand what that is. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz
I think people who often gravitate
towards these early ideas they can't
always articulate why
>> and it's sort of up to you to like dive
deeper and understand that.
>> That's one of that was so there's three
patterns we found. One of the other ones
was there's just pay attention to people
getting very excited about this thing
even if you don't get it.
>> Mh. And it's like sounds crazy. That's
so interesting. Okay. And then what was
the other one? Oh, the founders are just
like top 1% was the other
>> piece there, which everyone had
anthropic radius. So, you got that one.
>> Oh, man. Jenny, what a crazy time we're
living through. What a so much change.
>> Okay, before we get to our very exciting
lightning round, is there anything else
that I should have asked you that you
want to leave listeners with that you
want to double down on? Um, I think I
just want to call out uh the Anthropic
Design team um and shout them out uh
just because it's a team of folks that
are just really humble and they're not
always allowed us on social but they're
doing a lot of really great work and
especially through this time where our
jobs are changing so much. Uh the team
is so resilient and they're they sort of
span this whole spectrum of people who
are really technical and prototypy to
all the all the way to folks that are
really high craft and and and delivering
stuff that's that's going out the door
and is fabulous. Um and we are hiring
throughout the year. So I just wanted to
call that out if I didn't scare you with
the way that we work internally
anthropic. If that sounds more exciting
than terrifying um would love to
connect. What sounds exciting is getting
access to these slacks or all the
features being built?
>> Yeah, that's the core benefit.
>> Let's talk to super intelligence right
now and tell me where I should invest.
I'm just joking. And then in terms of
hiring, is there anything specific that
people should think about to if they
want to apply?
>> Think a little bit about the the
archetypes that I mentioned, especially
the strong generalist and the deep
specialist. Those folks were really
excited about uh but generally folks who
are
>> the block and the deep tea. the block
the block of the deep tea.
What could we be talking about? Uh yeah,
folks who feel like they,
you know, they those archetypes resonate
with them, but also folks that are just
really excited about the technology have
been building a lot um and and sort of
want to be on the frontier.
>> Amazing. Well, with that, we've reached
our very exciting lightning round and we
got five questions for you. Jenny, are
you ready?
>> All right, I'm ready.
>> Here we go. What are two or three books
that you find yourself recommending most
to other people?
>> The first one is The Power Broker by
Robert Caro, which is an which is an
incredibly aggressive recommendation
given that it's a it's like 1100 pages.
Uh but I think in this era when our our
when our attention spans are so short, I
think this is actually worth reading end
to end. Um because there I think there
are very few like collections or memoirs
where it spans through someone's entire
life and you sort of see how somebody
changes throughout those decades. Um and
it's also somebody who's really
controversial too and it's it's nice to
sort of like read a really nuanced view
of somebody Robert Moses and I think we
just lose out on some of this like long
arc thinking because we're so much we're
thinking so much about right now. So,
uh, it's just an important reminder that
careers are long and is also really good
for kind of understanding how somebody
just gets things done really well. So,
Power Broker. Um, the second one that I
recommend to a lot of people is uh, a
book called Insomniac City, which is
written by Bill Hayes, who is was the
partner of the scientist Oliver Socks
around the time that Oliver Sox died.
and it's just this like really beautiful
kind of like ethereal memoir of all of
her socks lost days and their sort of
love story. Um, I think this has like
very little to do with the stuff on your
podcast, Lenny, but it's just like it's
just a book that I really love. Um, and
just like makes you think about
mortality, but also like love and life
and stuff like that. So, that's one of
my favorite books.
>> My goal here isn't, you know, I'm trying
to create we're trying to create
Renaissance humans. So, all of this
other stuff is excellent.
>> Cool. Interestingly, I saw Julie Zoo,
uh, famed design leader, was reading The
Power Broker recently. I don't know
what's going on over here, spreading in
design.
>> Okay. Do you have a favorite recent
movie or TV show that you really
enjoyed?
>> Um, I watched A Sentimental Value
recently. I watched it on a plane, which
is, you know, how how directors want you
to watch their films. Um, but it's a
it's a Norwegian film by the same
director who did The Worst Person in the
World. I think just the the pacing, the
writing, the relationship between the
characters is just really subtle and
beautiful. Um, it's basically about this
family, sort of a family drama, but also
about this house that they lived in the
entire their entire lives. It's
beautiful cuz like the house is sort of
a character. So, I don't know what else
to say about that, but that was a really
good movie. Um, and then I would also
recommend obviously The Pit season 2.
You know, we're on that. We're on that.
I think everybody just likes to watch
people who are really competent at their
jobs do something. Um, so yeah,
>> imagine being an actor on that show just
like how much you have to learn and
memorize all these terms.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It just also seems really
fast-paced, too. Like they do so much
stuff in like one shot and there's just
so much like movement and stuff like
that. Seems really really hard to be an
aon.
>> And I only recently realized Noah Wy was
in ER as like a younger person and now
he's like the head of this.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Oh man. Okay. favorite product you've
recently discovered that you really love
cannot be co-work.
>> Not one that I actually discovered
recently. Um but I retro I've been using
it for basically two years now since it
came out. Um and I think I think I
discovered new benefits of it recently.
So uh for folks who don't know about
Retro, it's sort of like this small
community photo sharing app in which you
can only share um photos from each week
from a given week as opposed to like all
time. Um, and it basically has like none
of the social media stuff. Like you
can't really see like counts. It's not
there's no ads, etc. Um, but one really
nice thing is now that I've been using
it for 2 years, I can now look back at
each year and see like, oh yeah, this
week two years ago I was doing this and
it's become this really special way to
like live through each week of my life
basically.
>> Wow. And uh it's also a beautifully
crafted app if you're looking for
building your own taste in design.
>> Yeah. Designers love retro.
>> I could see I could see that. Okay. Do
you have a favorite life motto that you
often come back to in work or in life?
>> Yeah. Um not sure if my it's my favorite
life motto, but one thing I do catch
myself saying a lot is just uh it is
what it is.
>> My dad says that all the time. I love
>> Yeah.
>> It sounds super defeist, but I promise
it's not. I think just given how much
stuff is going on in the world right now
and especially with the industry and
whatnot, uh you can't control everything
and so sometimes it is what it is just
like brings the levity you need to move
forward.
>> I went to I did a 10day meditation
retreat a while ago and I came back from
it and it's like dad you've been right
all along. This is the whole the answer
to it all. It is what it is. You can't
don't cling, don't try to change. Just
it is what it is.
>> It is what it is.
>> It's there's so much depth to that. I
was like, "Okay, smarter than I even
thought."
>> Okay, final question. Coming back to
co-work, is there a I don't know,
mind-blowing use case, something just
like, "Wow, that's so cool that Co-work
can do that either something you use it
for or you've heard somebody using it
for."
>> One thing I really like is just like
introspection. And so, uh, I have this
this folder basically of like local
notes that I have from that I use like
IIA writer for and I basically just like
write whatever and and over the years
have collected it with a bunch of
different notes and they span like all
different things like one-on-one notes
like random thoughts like kind of like
tiny memos, interview notes, etc. And my
favorite like it makes it's it's cool to
me is just like using co-work to like
analyze that and have insights out of it
and actually create things out of it. Um
so like anything I anytime I can like
learn something new about myself like I
love that. But I think a very practical
thing I did with it the other day was
like along the lines of hiring, I was
like, "Oh yeah, I want to sort of
articulate like what it is that I look
for, what I look for in design craft
because I think actually a lot of people
struggle to articulate that." And I just
had it read through all of my notes,
both like interview notes and other
things that I cared about and memos and
stuff like that I've written in in the
past and then it made me this rubric uh
for for evaluating that. So, um, that
kind of introspection where it's like,
"Oh, I don't even I wouldn't have
realized even these things about myself
that I've been putting out there
implicitly, that's been really cool for
me."
>> That is so cool. So, just to make this
very clear for people, you have a folder
with all these things you've written,
one-on- ones, meetings, like you could
do, I don't know if you all are allowed
to use granola, something like that,
like meeting transcripts, and ask it.
And it's like I was gonna ask what
prompt you use, but it's just like read
all these things I've written and help
me probably just like understand how I
feel about what is design.
>> Yeah, basically I think it was like,
hey, I have a bunch of interview notes
and a bunch of notes related to design
craft in this folder. Um, read it and
then help me craft a uh like a a memo
rubric for how I assess craft in
interviews.
>> So cool.
>> Yeah,
>> Jenny, this was awesome. What a what a
time to be alive.
>> What a time.
>> Two final questions. Where can folks
find you online if they want to reach
out and how can listeners be useful to
you?
>> Yeah. Um I'm on Twitterx is what we're
calling it these days. Um it's
jenny_wen. That's probably the best
place. Not really on LinkedIn as much.
So that's that's the best place. Um and
how can folks be helpful to me? Send us
your product feedback. You know, like
we're working on co-work uh or anything
cloudreated really. Just send us our
your feedback. We'd love to make it
better for you.
>> Jenny, thank you so much for being here.
>> Yeah, of course. It was great chatting
with Lenny.
>> It was wonderful. Jenny, thank you. Bye,
everyone.
>> Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcast, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.